Welcome to Getting Data.
This is one of the more unique courses
in our to Data Science track and so
I wanted to give you a little bit
of motivation and prerequisites for
the course, so you get an idea about
what we're gonna be talking about.
This course covers the basic
ideas behind getting your data
ready to actually perform
a data analysis on it.
So this is a step that's often skipped
when you're taking a class in machine
learning or statistics.
They sort of assume that the data
are already ready to use.
They're in a nice, neat format.
So this class deals with the nitty-gritty
of finding the raw data in
whatever form they are,
whether they're in a database or
whether they're in a row image file or
something else and
extracting that data out and then it's
also concerned with tidy data principles.
Taking those raw data that are really
complicated and may be formatted not so
nicely and putting them into a nice tidy
format that makes it easy to use them when
you're actually doing data analysis.
It also covers practical implementation
through a range of R packages and
we'll be talking about a big range
of R packages in this class.
This course assumes that you've taken
the Data Scientist's Toolbox and
installed all the relevant tools.
And also that you've taken the R
Programming class or some similar class so
that you have enough R Programming
background not to be intimidated.
It would also be useful if you've taken
some exploratory data analysis and
also maybe the Reporting and Data and
Reproducible Research class.
Exploratory data analysis is relevant,
because you might want to plot some of
the data while you're doing data cleaning.
And Reporting Data and Reproducible
Research cover creating scripts that will
reproduce your analysis, which is
an important component cleaning data, but
these aren't required for
you to be able to follow the course.
So what you wish data would look
like is something like this.
So you can see here, this is an Excel file
where you actually have in every single
raw you have one observation.
And in every single column,
you have exactly one variable.
And so it's neatly organized into
something that looks like a matrix,
which makes it very easy to import this
into R or another programming language and
start to perform more complicated
statistical analysis.
But as we saw in
the Data Scientist's Toolbox,
real data looks much different than that.
For example, this is a fast cue file.
And in the fast cue file,
you might be interested in actually
extracting sort of the sequence
information from one line of this file or
from each separate line of the file.
And so to get at that sequence
information, you actually have to parse
this raw text file and extract out
the bits that you actually care about.
And so one of the steps in sort of getting
data is actually getting into these raw
files, figuring out their structure and
being able to extract the relevant bits.
Another thing that might happen is that
you might get data that's actually quite
neatly structured.
So for example,
this is the data from the API of Twitter.
And so what it is, it's actually data
that's formatted in JSON format.
And so JSON formatted data is
actually quite neat and organized and
very easy to distribute, but it's very
hard to actually use to do downstream
analyses in many programming languages.
So you might wanna reorganize that data in
such a way that it's easy to analyze and
do things with.
And so that's another component
of getting and cleaning data.
Finally, you might have situations like
this where you have instructions like
take one tablet by mouth and take
one-half tablet with grapefruit juice.
These are actually free-text instructions
that you might wanna be able to get into
that free-text and extract out.
A little piece of that information say,
how many tablets have they been
instructed to take and categorize that
by each record that you collected?
So the data might also be somewhere
that you have to extract it out.
So even if the data is in
a structure environment or
environment where you
might want to analyze it.
So here are a couple of examples,
these are both databases.
So MySQL and MongoDB are two very popular
free databases where data might be stored
say, for example,
if you're working at a company.
And you might wanna be able to go into
that database, collect some of that data
in its raw form and then process it in
such a way that you can do analysis maybe
on some subset of the data or create
an algorithm that will allow you to apply
predictive analytics to data that
you collect from these databases.
So again,
the data may be in all sorts of places.
It doesn't necessarily have to be data
that's sitting on a file in your computer.
For example, this is a get request,
we'll talk about it in this class.
It's a request to try and
get some information off of a website.
And so in this case,
it's getting information from Twitter API
about specific tweets or specific users.
Data might also be available
from other websites.
So this is a website that we'll see
relatively frequently in this class,
which is the Open Data
website from Baltimore.
And so this contains a bunch of datasets
that are very interesting and useful for
you to be able to analyze and
they're all free, which is great, but
you have to be able to
get them off the web.
Get them from the API or
from one of the downloadable files and
clean them up, so that you can
do downstream analysis on them.
So if you think about the whole
pipeline of going from a raw dataset,
you might have a database all the way to
the end to sort of the data that you might
communicate to a colleague or
a collaborator or a business partner.
There's actually a large number of steps.
And so what ends up happening
in most statistics and
machine learning classes,
they focus on this data analysis step,
which is an important component of the
data processing pipeline, but they tend
to skip over this early stage where you
actually go from raw data to tidy data.
And that turns out to be one of the more
important components in any kind of
environment where the data aren't
necessarily already pre-tidy for you.
So, any kind of start up company or
most large corporations or
almost every academic environment.
You'll wanna know how to actually
get at the raw data itself, so
that you can do the cleaning yourself, so
you understand the principles of what's
going on and
that's what this class is all about.